What if I was the square root of I?
Instead of the usual imaginary number,
the root of -1, we can define i in this
recursive way, the root of minus i. And
this means that it's also the root of
minus roo<unk> of minus i. And it's the
root of minus root of minus roo<unk> of
minus i and the root of minus root of
minus root of minus i. Spinning spiral
helps us understand this visually. We'll
put it in a grid with a real axis and an
imaginary ally. Then this spiral becomes
a set of numbers. Let's square all the
numbers using the usual I. The output is
twice as spiralally and twice as spinny.
And if we use the third power, it's
thrice as spiralally and thrice as
spinny. With the fourth power, it's
quadrric as spiralally and quadrric as
spinny. This keeps going. The usual eye
works really nicely. That's why it's the
usual. Switching to the recursive eye.
Squaring gives us this droopy spiral.
And the third power makes this amoeba
shape. Then with the fourth power, it's
back to being droopy. And with the fifth
power, it's back to being a mei. It's
giving me the heeie-jeebies.
So clearly, this recursive imaginary is
less nice than the usual imaginary. But
what if we combine them so that I is the
root of -1 minus i. And therefore also
the roo<unk> of -1 - roo<unk> of -1 -
roo<unk> of - 1 - the spiral in this
system gives a square that's not fully
droopy. It's just oopy. But we can morph
it into the droopy shape by changing the
definition of i. Let's morph back from
droopy to oopy and then to the usual
loopy. But why stop there? We can keep
going. This one looks kind of spooky.
Changing the definition of I kind of
looks like we're rotating in 3D.
But that's just with the square
function. Morphing the cubic function is
harder to understand and it gets even
more complex with other functions. In
this video, we'll explore what happens
when we define i to be the root of any a
+ b.
Let's return to the cubic graph and
switch the input to a square. Kachchow.
It's a lightning bolt. This form remains
when we redefine i. we still get some
four-pointed shape. And the most
symmetrical shape is here, where i is
the root of one. If you're a returning
viewer, you may recognize this from my
last video. If you're a new viewer,
hello. Last time we talked about the
split complex numbers, which have j as
the root of one. It turns out the split
complex are squal to the recursive
imaginary. Mathematicians use this
squiggly equal to say that the two
systems are the same in every meaningful
way, but technically we define them
differently. You shouldn't say they're
equal because they're not exactly the
same. That just wouldn't be correct and
you must be correct at all times. To see
why these systems are squal, let's
consider 1 + 2 I. If we square it, then
do a little alge, we end up with one.
This number squares to one. It acts the
same as J. So we can convert the I into
J by going two vertically and one
horizontally. That's a knight's move.
The split complex are squeak wool to the
knights move recursive imaginary
numbers. To visualize this, let's start
with the recursive and we can morph into
the split complex by changing the
definition of I. Or instead we can fix
the recursive definition of I and apply
a night's move to the input and output.
The effect is the same. we get that
symmetrical shape. And it's not just
this recursive definition. A bunch of
other definitions are also squal to the
split complex. As we morph the cubic
graph, we always get this four-pointed
output. These systems are just skewed
versions of the split. Wait a sec. Wait,
do you see that the shape is overlapping
itself? Can we get a replay? Okay, so
the shape is normal. Just a four-ointed
loop. Here it crossed over itself. Now
it's fundamentally different than
before. These systems are not squal to
the split complex and this includes that
mixed definition the roo<unk> of -1 - i.
This mixed imaginary system is actually
squal to the regular complex numbers.
Although now we have two different i
variables. So let's make these ones
oopy. I acts the same as 1 + 2 oopi over
roo<unk>3. If we square both of them
then do a little alge we end up with -1.
These two systems act the same. All of
these overlapping systems are squaled to
the complex numbers. Let's put a point
to mark the value of i^ squ. When it's
on the left of the screen we get the
overlapping complex and when it's on the
right we get the no overlapping splits.
But interestingly the border is not in
the middle. We can move I squar slightly
into the left but the shape is still no
overlapping. We have to go even further
to become complex. So the border is
somewhere over here. But it can't even
be a vertical border. Back here the
shape isn't overlapping but by moving
down we turn complex. So what is the
border? Let's figure it out. Given a
definition of I, is it complex? We'll
check to see if there's something that
squares to -1. So let's distribute then
replace i^2 with the definition. And now
let's separate the real and imaginary
parts of this equation. In the imaginary
we do a little alge and find that x
is<unk> / 2. So in the real equation we
can substitute for x then do a little
alge and we find that the right arm side
is less than zero. So that means the
left arm side must also be less than
zero. and therefore a is less than a/4
of b^2.
If this is true then the system is
complex. But if a is greater than a/4 of
b ^2 the system is the splits. So the
border is where these two sides are
equal. This equation makes a sideways
parabola. The complex systems are to the
left of the side parabola and the splits
are to the right of the side parabola.
But what if the definition is on the
side parabola? Then we're neither split
nor complex. In this case, the system
squ equals the duels where epsilon
squares to zero. The duels are the
border. A great way to see this is the
inverse function. In the complex, the
inverse is contained. But if we move it
to the dus, then it approaches infinity
along a donkey tote. And if we move it
to the splits, now there are two donium
totes. The behavior of this graph makes
it clear which system we're in. And it's
fun to look at the behavior of some
other functions. You can do that
yourself at this website that I made.
Thanks to my recent supporters for
helping me feel justified making this
kind of extra content. I even created a
game where you have to adjust I squared
to match a target shape. It's pretty
fun. So check out the site. Enjoy the
game.